Assignment Overview
This project extends Project #1 by replacing traditional socket-based communication with Remote Procedure Calls (RPC) using Java RMI (Remote Method Invocation). Additionally, the server has been modified to support multi-threading, allowing concurrent client requests to be handled efficiently.

The primary enhancements in this project include:
1. RPC-based Communication: Java RMI is used instead of TCP/UDP sockets to enable distributed computing and simplify remote method invocation.
2. Multi-threading Implementation: The server is designed to handle multiple concurrent client requests, ensuring efficient processing of PUT, GET, and DELETE operations.
3. Thread-Safe Key-Value Store: The data store is implemented using ConcurrentHashMap with ReentrantReadWriteLock to ensure data consistency and avoid race conditions.
4. Prepopulated Data Testing: The client prepopulates the server with 5 key-value pairs, performs 5 PUT, 5 GET, and 5 DELETE operations, and verifies that the system functions correctly under concurrent access.

By implementing these improvements, the project demonstrates the ability to create a scalable, efficient, and concurrent Key-Value Store using Java RMI.



Technical Impression
This project provided significant learning opportunities in distributed systems and multi-threading. The shift from traditional socket programming to Java RMI highlighted the advantages of remote method invocation, such as abstraction over low-level networking and easier interaction between distributed components.

Challenges Faced:
1. Ensuring Thread Safety in a Multi-threaded Server:
   - The biggest challenge was allowing multiple clients to interact with the server simultaneously without causing race conditions.
   - Using ConcurrentHashMap helped prevent data corruption, while ReentrantReadWriteLock ensured that multiple reads could happen concurrently, but writes were properly synchronized.

2. Configuring and Debugging Java RMI:
   - Setting up the RMI registry correctly was crucial. Initially, the client encountered a java.rmi.NotBoundException, which was resolved by ensuring the server correctly bound the object using:
     registry.rebind("KeyValueStore", store);
   - Another challenge was handling network connectivity and firewall issues, which required ensuring that the RMI server was running before starting the client.

3. Handling Multiple Concurrent Clients:
   - To test concurrency, multiple instances of RMIClient were executed in parallel. The server successfully handled simultaneous requests without any inconsistencies, validating the effectiveness of the multi-threaded design.



Potential Use Case
A multi-threaded, RPC-based Key-Value Store like this project can serve as the foundation for a distributed caching system.
Some real-world applications include:
- In-memory caches (e.g., Redis, Memcached): The server can be extended to store frequently accessed data for high-speed retrieval.
- Distributed NoSQL databases: Adding persistence and replication would allow the system to function as a lightweight distributed key-value database.
- Microservices communication: Java RMI enables inter-service communication in a distributed computing environment.



Final Conclusion
This project successfully demonstrates the integration of Remote Procedure Calls (RPC) and multi-threading to create a concurrent, distributed Key-Value Store. The implementation ensures thread safety, supports multiple concurrent clients, and leverages Java RMI for efficient remote communication. The project meets all specified requirements and provides a solid foundation for further extensions, such as persistence, replication, and load balancing.

By completing this project, I have gained a deeper understanding of Java RMI, multi-threading, and distributed systems, which are essential concepts for designing scalable and high-performance applications.
